[MUSIC]
Hi, I'm Lisa Garr, host of
Gaiam Inspirations.
When we lose someone we love,
we would almost do
anything just to get that last
piece of communication,
or to hear that person's voice
again.
It's as if hearing their words
would break down those walls
of grief and give life back to
those who are grieving.
And this is what James Van
Praagh said
when describing his work of
over 30 years.
James is a psychic medium, and
for most of his life,
he's heard the subtle whispers
of spirit, as he calls them,
and those whispers between our
earthly world,
and the finer etheric world of
spirit.
Welcome to the show James Van
Praagh.
Thank you List, thank you for
having me, I appreciate it.
Great to have you here.
So when you do hear these
whispers,
I mean sometimes they come
through really strong,
and sometimes they come through
as a whisper,
how do you know the difference?
It really depends on the
spirit, how they're going
to project the image or the
thought into my consciousness.
And there are some
communicators that are very
very good,
at projecting a thought,
projecting an image,
and there are others that
really have a hard time
to project it, so it really
depends on the spirit,
how good they are doing it.
I gotta ask you about
dimensions and worlds,
that we live in, and this isn't
it, is it?
We're not just us, right?
No, no we are souls having a
physical experience,
not the other way around.
Some people think this is it,
this physical world
is all there is, they're very
very wrong.
There's just a piece, a small
piece, a small percentage
of who we truly are, including
our souls, people think
this is our soul, no this is a
very small piece of our soul.
It sure gives us a good visual
though doesn't it,
everything around us looks like
it's so physical.
So when these beings are
communicating to you,
where are they coming from,
where do they exist?
It's very much, I will tell
people, it's interdimensional,
in that right now we're sitting
here
in a three dimensional world,
and we're at this physicality
of it.
But really all around us, are
really other dimensions,
just like we have radio waves,
and television waves,
and microwaves, gamma rays, all
around us they're existing,
but yet we're not attuned to
them, because we're
at a physical level, but the
spirit world's the same thing,
we're gonna have faster
vibration of energy,
faster frequency, and those
dimensions of the spirit
are all around us,
interpenetrating if you will,
the physical.
And a medium is someone who is
able to,
attune themselves to those
higher vibrations,
those higher dimensions, that
are right around us.
So really, I'm a good listener,
if you will.
Well, also a skilled one after
doing it for so long,
you've really find tuned your
craft.
Yes, it's very very true, and
it's ironic,
because you really have to sit
and be quiet,
in order to hear spirit.
And I sat for many many years
in a development circle,
which really consists of
sitting in the quiet,
listening to what goes on in
the mind, and that's so ironic,
but that's really when you hear
a spirit.
What do you do with your mind
chatter now?
I mean, do you still have, mind
chatter?
I do have mind chatter,
but nothing is severe as it use
to be.
I've really been able to really
put it in the right position
if you will, and see it for
what it is.
And I see what is real, and
what is not real--
Does it have a lower vibration,
does it have a heavier
frequency when you have your
own cycle of chatter going on?
Yeah, the mind chatter, yeah
tends to be egocentric,
ego based, so, a lot of it's
ego, and yeah,
that's a lower dimension if you
will,
not that the ego's lower
dimension, but everyone's
got to be careful, because it's
a fine balance,
everything is balance and
moderation,
and the ego is as well.
So did you hear these voices
when you were younger,
did they frighten you, and what
was your childhood like?
Just like the movie The Sixth
Sense, that's the easiest
way to know what my childhood
was like.
I was very much that child in
The Sixth Sense,
where I would see spirit all
the time,
I would see spirit around
people, see lights around
people,
known as the aura, the colors
around people,
I would know things before they
would happen,
so I was very psychic, very
intuitive.
I remember asking my mother one
night,
we were ready to say prayers at
bed,
at about seven years old, and I
said to my mom,
"Who are those people at the
end of the bed?",
and there were these beings,
with beautiful,
luminous lights all around
them, and she said,
"Oh them?" She saw them too,
she said,
"Those are God's angels.
"I used to see them when I was
a little girl."
She said they'll always take
care of you, you have nothing
to be fearful of, and really
that was the beginning,
where I knew that this was
real, and that it was safe,
I have nothing to be afraid of.
So she really instilled that to
me, seven years old.
Interesting, but she couldn't
necessarily
handle the gift as well as you
could, right?
That's right, Lisa, that's
right.
In that generation, she was
very very psychic,
very mediumistic, because she
used to say often,
she'd see spirit around her,
but in that generation,
it wasn't something that you
really talked about,
being psychic, or being a
medium.
She was also very Catholic,
very religious,
and that really played into it,
because she wasn't really sure
about this sort of thing.
Why would you say in this
generation,
this is more acceptable
language?
It is, I think as human beings,
we evolve.
I think that the human being
evolves--
One would hope.
I would hope so, I hope so.
On a spiritual level we're
evolving,
and this Earth world we're in
evolves,
and I think that's why we're
here, light workers,
to bring in more of a level of
awareness,
to change the consciousness, so
I do think now
that the playing field is much
much more open.
I mean look at the television
shows, the ghost shows,
the spiritual shows, it's more
mainstream,
and everybody has an experience,
everybody has a déjà vu
experience,
has like a past life memory,
something goes on,
and now people can talk about
it, where before,
years ago, you weren't able to
talk about those things.
Right...
You have to stay in the closet
with those things,
not any more.
People are free now to talk
about their experiences,
and they're very real
experiences for people.
Well you have been the
executive producer
on many of those shows that we
see on television,
Ghost Whisperer, you created
the concept behind it,
based on your life.
Yeah based on my life, and yes,
based on my life.
Yes, very much so.
I had a friend of mine that
worked at CBS television,
and she became a client also,
and she was so moved
by the experience, and about
the communication,
and the power of communication,
that this stuff is real.
And she really wanted to bring
it out
to people around the world, and
she did that.
And it's good she was in a
position with television,
that she was able to present
this in a network setting.
And now Ghost Whisperer is all
over the world,
I mean, everyone has seen this
show.
Yes.
And yes, it's based a lot on my
life.
It's interesting because you
really did kind of
break down the walls so that
people
could have that in their living
rooms.
Yes.
Even thought it's--
I take that, I do take that,
that is very true.
When I went out there, it
really was the Beyond show,
my Beyond show and John did a
British show,
called Crossing Over.
Oh yeah.
Between the both of us, really
we're kind of out there.
And I was out there with
television, writing stuff,
producing stuff, getting
television movies made,
and really pushing it that way,
because I believe
the medium of television, or
this medium now,
of course it is changing.
You really can use it the best
optimum way,
and that is really to help
people grow spiritually,
as you know--
Yes, when you bring the
conversation
out of the living room and off
of the phone
with your best friend into a
medium like this,
for lack of a better word--
Badum-pum
It really does make, it gives
it a lot more credibility,
but how do you deal with the
scrutiny,
and the people that don't
understand
what it is you do, and we
haven't even gotten fully into
how you do communicate with the
lost loved ones.
Right, well you know when you
get into this type of work,
as a medium, you have to be
true to yourself.
And part of sitting in
development, for myself,
I'm only answering for myself,
is really being sure
of yourself, being true to
yourself, being true of spirit.
You know if I was to worry
about what people think
about the work, well then my
ego would be getting
involved, wouldn't it?
And the ego, when the ego's
involved like that,
you can't be like that because
then
you won't have room for spirit
to come through.
So, you have to get to a
position where you are safe,
your ego is very very safe,
very very balanced,
you're very sure of what you're
doing,
you know this is real, and you
have to trust,
and you trust spirit.
And I know when I'm receiving
Yes.
And I'm receiving the visions,
the feelings,
the communication, and then
when the person
understands that, oh yes, my
father's name was Jerry,
and he died on July 4th, 1955--
Oh god.
And the details, that's really
the proof in the pudding.
I've seen you in a room, and
the healing that occurs
in the room when you do say I'm
hearing somebody,
there was a tie that dropped in
the closet, and someone
starts bursting out in tears,
and then you said
"Well, he's here, is there a
Joseph?"
and it just starts and the
magic starts.
The healing begins in the
people.
It blew my mind the first time
I saw you speak.
It was here in Los Angeles.
I was just moved by the healing
that occurred in the people.
That's what I say, Lisa.
I say I'm really a healer and
I'm a teacher.
There are many mediums out there
but not every medium is a
teacher.
Also, I should let people know
that
just because someone says they
are a medium
doesn't mean that they are
necessarily spiritual.
So they are two different
things.
Oh.
You can be a incredible medium
and
have great great details but
you're not
necessarily spiritual.
That explains some people I
know.
That's very very true.
So, it's a big difference.
When I have the work I do,
I am a healer.
I think that the work itself
heals people.
Yes, yes.
Because you alleviate, number
one,
the fear of death and when you
alleviate
the fear of death,
you really begin to live life
fully.
I mean, you've been on Larry
King.
You've been on every major
television show out there.
Entertainment Tonight did a
whole piece on you.
You really have, because of
the impact that you're making.
Actually, I have one of those
videos.
I want you to take a look at.
This is James Van Praagh in
action.
Take a look.
(slow mystical music)
Is everything he said true?
Yes, it is.
He was in the hospital six
weeks before he passed.
He is television's most famous
medium and
tonight, James Van Praagh is
having Hollywood visions.
There's some extraordinary
stories in James' book,
"Talking to Heaven."
Sue and Don Raskins' story is
one of them.
Their 33 year old son Douglas
fell to his death
climbing Mount Fuji in 1994.
They now say they have proof
that he was
in touch with their dead son,
Douglas.
The proof is that James told us
when we went to see him
there was a helicopter involved
and we said
No, no, there's no helicopter
involved and
he also said we would be
getting pictures
after Doug died, we'd be
of Doug climbing Mount Fuji and
right before he fell off of the
mountain.
We said, no, no.
There was no picture found.
Well, four months, it was about
three months later,
we got a bill for $10, 000 for
the helicopter.
Then, we got a phone call that
they had
found his camera.
The climbing crew went back and
they found his camera and they
developed the pictures
and they sent them to us.
We have them.
Sure enough, it was just what
James said.
A picture of Doug before he
starts climbing the mountain
and about twenty minutes before
he fell off the mountain.
That's the picture?
That's the picture.
After he told you the picture
was coming?
He also told us we'd be getting
a picture
with a message on it.
On the corner of the picture it
said "I love you."
This is the picture.
How did that get on there?
When he was in first grade, he
says,
he knew his teacher's son would
be in an accident
before it happened.
I went up to her and I said,
"Your son got hit by a car,
"but he's okay, he's okay.
"He just broke his leg but he's
okay."
And she just looked at me and
she said,
"You go back to your seat right
now."
I thought, okay.
I just wanted to tell her what
I saw.
Ten minutes later, the
principal informed
Van Praagh's teacher that this
accident had occurred.
She asked how I knew that and I
started crying.
I was very scared.
The reason why was because I
thought I caused
that accident to happen,
because I knew it was going to
happen.
I thought I caused it.
I thank God to this day that
lady said to me,
"No, no, no, no, James.
"Don't worry, don't worry.
"God gives special people
special gifts
"and one day you'll use those
gifts to help people."
As I'm standing here before,
this German Shepherd runs right
up and jumps on you.
The dog appreciates you
carrying it,
because you had to carry the
dog.
You understand, please?
Yes, Sir.
There is a picture you have of
this animal.
Very very beautiful.
I can only tell you that this
animal appreciates
all that you did for it and the
animal was in pain
and its hind legs were not good.
Yes, exactly.
My experiences were actually
extremely compelling
and extremely convincing and
none of the things he said
to either of us were anything
that
would ever be researchable.
I'd have to say it's something
that I believe has happened.
There were two hospitals
that they wanted to bring him
to.
Okay? I don't know if one was
full and they had to bring him
to another hospital.
How could you know that?
Because that's what he just
told me.
Oh, my god.
That is absolutely true.
Who is A-m-a-?
Amanda.
Who is that?
This is a lady that wants to
say hello to you
and this lady, Amanda, wants to
give you her love.
Did she talk to you about
verses from the Bible
or try to ever teach the Bible?
Aunt Mary? Yeah.
(laughing)
Oh yeah.
Because she is showing me the
Bible.
She comes in with her Bible,
she's very proud of her Bible.
Because I get different things
different ways, okay?
And what I picked up with this
man standing here
was gunpowder.
His heart is torn, too, his
heart is torn too.
He's here with you very much.
I know this thing, did he buy
this?
Yes.
Because he keeps on holding
this.
He said, "I bought it for her."
And he said to me,
"She wore it today because she
knew
"that it would attract me."
Does that make sense?
Barbara's heart surgery,
breaking news.
Did this famed medium see it
coming?
He said, "There's something
wrong with your blood."
Even Cher had a reading after
the death
of her ex-husband, Sonny Bono.
I spoke to Cher about these
earrings.
She was sitting down in her
closet the night before,
looking at a pair of earrings
that he gave her.
She said, "That's exactly what
I was doing."
Farrah Fawcett's best friend,
Alana Stewart, sits down for a
tearful reading
from James Van Praagh.
She said that?
She said, "Thank you for my
bracelet."
And Alana said, "I'm wearing it
right now, here it is."
And she showed it to the camera.
She gave this to me for my
birthday two years ago.
James is being put in the right
place at the right time,
only because he's listening to
spirit.
If he had a closed mind and he
wasn't listening,
he wouldn't be anywhere.
I've seen James five or six
times now,
and that's one thing that
really impresses me
about him is the detail that
comes through.
The things that nobody else
would know about.
Tonight, here at the Queen Mary,
a ship known world wide of
hauntings of her very own.
Are these owners going to learn
that their items are
truly possessed or are we
simply in
for a night of great ghost
stories?
I get this creepy, scary
feeling of it's not settled
and it's like there are some
deaths already done
with these instruments.
You won't believe who he made
contact with.
James Van Praagh is a great man.
He and I have had the
opportunity to get
a unique friendship going.
I always kind of feel him in a
strange way.
Celebrity Ghost Whisperer
James Van Praagh's warning for
Brittany Spears.
What he's been able to share
with me
has been extraordinary.
There are two ghosts on her.
What happened here even had me
surprised.
I do believe Sonny's helped her.
I can't tell you how many times
he's been right.
There's a much bigger picture
going on here.
Oh. You do angels, or work with
angels or something
having to do with angels?
My name is Angel.
That shows the power of your
work and
how it's been recognized
internationally
through different media.
You also have a lot of
different celebrities
who have come through you and
come to you for readings.
Yes.
A lot of them.
Cher is probably the most
well-known who
came to me after Sonny passed
away and
Sonny came through really
really well.
I remember it was the night
before the Academy Awards
and he talked about the
earrings, that she was in the
closet
the night before, certain
earrings he gave her.
He brought up names of people,
Armenian names of people and it
was pretty amazing.
I been through a lot from
people.
I've had Abraham Lincoln has
come through me,
Charlie Chaplin's come through
me,
oh gosh, lots of different.
Liberace's come through me.
Lots of people, lots of people.
Do you have to kind of turn on,
for lack of a better word,
the ability to hear these?
Or else you would be barraged
all day long?
Yes, and part of learning how
to do this work
in development is learning how
to turn on, turn off.
So, it's like a radio station.
You have a radio, your turn the
radio on
you tune into a station.
That's like me.
I turn on, I put myself in a
receptive space
and then I kind of tune into
the whispers,
the subtle whispers.
the feelings, the emotions that
I'm receiving
and I give them out.
When I'm finished doing the
work,
I kind of shut down.
I take away the awareness and
then
I'm back to normal.
An everyday person.
It's interesting because I
measure it
based on the amount of truth I
feel.
When I heard or I saw the piece
where
Farrah Fawcett came through you,
instead of talking about the
fact that
she died on the same day as
Michael Jackson.
Yes, yes.
There were little things when
Farrah Fawcett came through,
little subtleties, which, being
the voice box basically
I never know what's going to
come through
or what they're going to say.
The personalities really come
through.
I remember that she was talking
about
a bracelet she'd given her
friend and
she was actually wearing the
bracelet.
She talked about being upset
because
Michael Jackson died around the
same time she did.
Same day, yeah.
So much publicity for him, a
little for her
but she was very understanding
but--
(laughter)
Alana Stewart. Alana Stewart
had had the reading.
She was wearing the bracelet
that she gave her
and Farrah mentioned it.
"You're wearing my bracelet."
When somebody crosses over or
moves on as spirit,
do they really want to come
through and communicate
with the person who is still on
this Earth plane
when they really have an
attachment to someone?
Like losing a father or a child
even?
Just like the movie, "Ghost,"
which I think is a wonderful
depiction
of how it really is,
when you leave this physical
shell which
is very painless, there's no
pain involved
with leaving the body, no pain
whatsoever.
Leading up to the death, there
might be some pain
involved with the type of way
you pass out,
but when you actually leave,
when the spirit leaves the
physical body,
there is no pain.
One of the first things they
want to do is
to tell their loved ones,
"I'm okay, I'm alive, I'm fine.
"You don't need to grieve.
"You don't need to be upset,
"Don't be upset about my death
because I'm not dead.
"I'm very alive."
And they all go to their
funerals.
They all go to their funerals,
their memorial services.
They'll see who is standing in
the funeral chapel there.
All the time.
I can imagine that would be
healing because
if you have someone who maybe
died a painful death
or a disease or an illness and
you watch their physical body
go through such pain,
to imagine them no longer in
that pain
it takes a leap of faith.
It does but a lot of times,
spirit will come back and say,
"Mom, please don't remember me
that way.
"I'm not in that car crash.
"Mom, that's not my body like
that,
"that's withered and dried up
like that.
"That's not who I am.
"Don't remember me that way
because
"that's not who I was.
"That was the old me, I'm the
young vital person now.
"That's my spirit."
The spirit is very very young.
We all go back to the younger
part of our lives,
the prime of our lives.
We do?
Yeah, let's say we die when
we're 70 or 80 or 90s.
You tend to go back to the
prime of your life,
the time of your life that you
liked the most.
Most people tend to go back to
their 20s or their 30s.
This is very interesting, Lisa.
When the spirit does come back
and they will communicate,
many times they will
communicate in memories,
very fond memories that the
person receiving
the information will understand.
Like, your dad is talking to me
about the lake,
you used to go to the lake and
have barbecues
in July and August.
Yes we used to do that.
And he's talking about ride in
the boat.
Yes, we used to do that, those
were great memories.
That's what he's going to bring
through.
So, they often come back that
way.
Yeah, that makes sense and
I've seen it happen in a room,
too, as well.
So, when we have those memories,
if we've lost a loved one,
can we then communicate to our
loved ones
through those memories?
Yes, we can.
There's easy ways to
communicate with spirit.
People think you need a medium
to do it.
Not necessarily.
A medium is someone who is able
to hear them clearly
and really be able to translate
what they're saying,
translate the images, the
impressions,
but everybody can hear from
their loved ones.
For instance, if you go to
sleep at night,
ask that they come to you in
your dreams.
That's the number one way they
communicate
is the dream state so they'll
come through your dreams.
You'll have a dream of them.
Or keep a journal next to your
bed.
Try to meditate and quiet your
mind and listen to them.
They'll start writing a message
to you.
Why would they come through our
dreams?
It's the easiest way to get
through because
we're not on our rational
conscious mind.
We're not in the critical mind.
That little mind chatter that
says
"Oh, this can't possibly be."
That little left brain, that
left part that's
analyzing, critiquing
everything.
We're not in that space.
We're away from that so it's
easy to drop something in.
So, we're not in a place of
being able to move, either,
so our minds are pretty clear.
I mean, one of the wonderful
reasons I'd love
to have you on the show and
you're here,
so that people who are in that
space of grief
can get some communication and
maybe
try some things on their own.
That's why I love what you do.
People try this in the privacy
of their own home
in their quietest hours.
"I heard this person talk and
"maybe this works so maybe I'll
try this."
They have to be consistent
about it.
You can't be like
"I'm going to do this tonight
and have results right away."
No, no, no.
It's really a process and it's
a process of,
if you will, training the mind
also to be open.
A lot of us have a lot of
trouble quieting the mind.
So, you have to train the mind
to quiet the mind.
The more you do it, the better
you get it at.
Another great exercise I have
people do
is to write a letter to their
loved one.
Sit down and physically write.
Letter writing has gone out for
the computer,
but I think that it's wonderful
when you can
take the time and the energy to
sit and
write them a love letter.
A letter, just a note, what you
want to think about them,
what you want to say to them.
Then, put that letter away.
Fold it away, put it in an
envelope
and put it in your drawer for
probably two weeks.
In your calendar, write down
"response" and
then two weeks later you sit
down with a paper
and let them write a letter to
you and
I guarantee you people will get
results.
I have had thousands and
thousands of my clients do this
and it's a staggering amount
how many get results right away.
They'll say, "Wow, I never even
thought it that way."
It's amazing.
So, you clear your mind and you
just allow
the information to come through
as a response?
Exactly right.
Another one they can do, and I
teach this in my class,
is to get into that quiet
space, if you will,
and just become focused on that
person
that passed into spirit.
Just become them.
Let them use your body, let
your eyes become their eyes,
your hands become their hands,
your arms their arms
and let them just take you over
and be.
Then listen.
Listen to what comes through in
your mind.
You'll be amazed at what comes
through.
The opinions, perspectives on
things change.
It works really really well
so it's another way of doing
that.
There's always ways .
They're right around us.
They share the space around us.
It's just a matter of us
breaking down those walls
so as to enable them to come
through easier.
Could you do that even maybe
for someone
who hasn't passed over?
Just to get communication with
the spirit in general
because the perspectives of
spirit must be enormous.
Yes, you can do that,
especially with people--
because spirit to spirit can
communicate.
We're physical beings but
we're also spirit first and
foremost,
so the spirit of somebody, you
can certainly
call for them to come to you,
someone who's living,
and you can work with them that
way.
What is the spirit that--
the perspective that spirit
usually has?
What is it?
It's amazing because I've have
a near death experience
several years back and I've
done this work for thirty years
but even with the work I've
done,
when I had that near-death
experience
it was a whole different world.
It kind of opens you up
immediately
to the wholeness of your being
and you see that this one
physical body
is really just a tiny piece of
who we really are.
I realized that from a soul
perspective
that we're all connected.
From my years of experience I
had an awareness
that everybody had, if you
will, like a ribbon
at the top of their head which
attached to a tapestry,
a Universal tapestry, that
we're all connected to
and whatever we thought
would change the color of this
ribbon.
So, if we thought of the word
"love,"
a beautiful pink light would
come out and
in turn really influence that
tapestry.
It's amazing how you then
become aware of your thoughts.
Thoughts are things.
Thoughts are real.
We are our thoughts and you
begin to see,
"Wow, what I'm thinking affects
that person
"and that person and that
person."
The Universal tapestry.
What a great vision.
What a great visual as well.
It's real, it's so real.
Yeah and if we could all really
indeed
changes those thought.
Take responsibility for our
thoughts.
That's number one.
That's the key, to realize that
thoughts are living things
and are you proud of what
you've left to the world?
Are you proud of what you've
left as a human being?
Because when you pass over to
the spirit world,
you're going to look back at
your life and
you're going to see all the
thoughts that you've sent out,
all the feelings you have sent
out and you will see them.
So, I just want to tell people
that are watching this,
I hope you are proud of what
you send out into the world.
So, you see how they affect
other people as well.
That's right.
I often say to people it's like
a painting.
Your thoughts are creating a
painting and
when you pass through to the
spirit world,
you're going to see how
beautiful your painting is
or how disturbing your painting
is.
What do you want to see when
you pass over?
I guess it's more important to
know that now.
(laughing)
Yes.
That's why I see what you say
about having responsibility
for our actions and our
thoughts now.
You mentioned, as a soul, you
keep referencing
"as a soul,"
Do we--?
Having a physical experience.
We are souls having a physical
experience,
not the other way around.
It's a very important
perspective to have.
When we start having that
perspective,
again, the key understandings
of life start changing
and we begin to see things from
that soul point of view
not the physical point of view.
Do we reincarnate in soul
groups,
where we over and over again
want to come back
and complete these soul groups?
Yes, yes we do.
Soul groups are really just
souls who've come back
and shared lifetimes with each
other,
the same lifetimes,
the same experiences.
We are all souls and people ask
me about soulmates.
Is there a soulmate?
I think there are soulmates.
I think there are souls who
share many, many lifetimes,
many, many experiences so
there's an affinity that
grows up between them.
So, there's not one soul mate.
No, soulmates, I would say.
Now, there might be one soul
that you've had
really all lifetimes with and
that might be somebody
you'd have love times with,
lifetimes you've shared many,
many
many, many things.
Yes, I call it more a twin
soul, if you will.
A twin soul.
A twin soul, two halves coming
together.
But I think we really have all
soulmates.
I think people have an idea
that this physical Earth
is the only place to go to.
This Earth is really one
schoolroom of
many, many, many schools.
This Earth is just, it's a hard
school here,
because there are people here
that
are unevolved and people that
are evolved.
There are people that still
think war is the answer
when it isn't, because you
can't kill people.
There are many many solar
systems,
many star systems, if you will.
Many, many places to go.
The Earth is just one
schoolroom out of
millions and millions and
millions.
So if we've chosen it this time,
to come into this schoolroom
and to be here now,
then we have a certain level of
responsibility, don't we?
Yes we do, you bet we do.
Yeah.
Of course we do.
We're going to take a quick
break and
when we come back, we're going
to talk about
the upcoming year, 2013, and
different things
that James has to share with us
about our lives
and what we have to look
forward to going forward.
We'll be right back.
You're watching Gaiam
Inspirations.
I'm Lisa Garr.
We'll be right back.
[MUSIC]
Welcome back to Gaiam
Inspirations.
I'm Lisa Garr
and my guest is psychic medium,
James Van Praagh, author of
"Talking to Heaven," among many
other books.
"Growing Up in Heaven," the one
about children.
So, I asked right before the
break
about 2013 and what we have to
look forward to
and I definitely want to talk
about children.
So, what is--
first of all, I've got to look
back on 2012 for a second.
It was pretty amazing, wasn't
it?
It was an amazing year.
What a shift.
Yes.
Shift happens.
(laughing)
Did you experience an intensity
at the end?
Totally, did you?
The end of the year, it was
like a train wreck almost.
Could that be because everyone
was
thinking about the change?
Because everyone was expecting
that big thing
to happen in December and a lot
of energy on that.
The day after was over it was
like,
ahh, relieved.
The day that we turned into the
new recycle,
in the beginning of January,
I felt an instant relief.
Did you feel that same?
Totally. Same thing exactly.
Actually the day after that.
Was it because the intensity
and the attention
was lifted?
Exactly.
Or was alleviated, exactly.
That's what energy is.
It's letting that stuff go.
So, it's exactly right.
2013 is going to be, I think--
everything is a great year
depending on
how you look at it, your
perspective--
but I think this is going to be
a big change
in this year as well.
I think there's going to be,
I think there is going to be a
lot of people
questioning their belief
systems here.
I think that you're going to
see a lot of Earth changes
this time around, too.
I do, I do feel that.
I feel that there's going to be
a lot of
pulling to people's
spirituality.
They're going to have to really
go into spirit,
into their own spiritual self
and learn what
resonates as truth within them.
I think there's going to be
challenges
to the belief systems,
I think religion's going to be
challenged even more so
this year than ever before.
So, it's really happening.
The light is here, you know?
The light is among us.
When you have this amount of
light,
it illuminates the darkness.
It illuminates the darkness
when it comes to the surface.
Is there going to be a lot more
tragedy
and natural disaster?
I mean, there's always going to
be some of that.
I do think so.
Those types of things have been
predicted
and they were predicted
especially last year.
I think we will.
I think we will have a lot of
water changes,
the conditions of the water,
whether that's flood
or whether that's hurricanes.
A lot of that.
I predict some Earth movement.
It's interesting because you
can always say
there's going to be tragedy,
and there's going to be Earth
changes but
in particular, what we're
seeing now is unprecedented.
So, it's just going to--?
I think it's going to continue.
Lots of the Earth changes and
things,
there are always going to be
changes,
the Earth changes every day.
But it will be significant.
So what can suggest to us, as
spirit, to do in those
types of times of change to get
closer with the family,
to get a network around you?
Yeah and you've been with me,
sometimes we've had on a radio
show you've done
and you mentioned to one of the
callers which was wonderful
was to have that group around
you, the networking group.
And it's really a time to
really take hold of who you are
and your spiritual self, you
know?
You really have to start
questioning,
educating yourself about
spirit, you know?
The power is really someone who
has an awareness.
You're saying what I'm thinking.
The telepathic communicaton--
That's what I do.
That's what I do for a living
there, Lisa.
But I think practicing
telepathic communication
is really the way of the future.
Sure, because we're all energy,
so if we emanate energy, we're
sending out thoughts.
That's energy
So, we can do things with our
minds.
We are, that's who we are.
And we send these thoughts out
with our mind,
that energy, it will change and
make a change.
You know, when you think of
something
it goes somewhere.
It doesn't just exist and
really just evaporate into the
ether.
It goes to what the target is.
What you're thinking is where
the thought will go.
I notice that a lot with my
daughter.
She spits out things that I'm
thinking.
Right away, because the veil's
very thin
when they're younger and not as
cluttered, the mind.
So, something will happen to me
and the next day
she'll say,
"Mommy, I had a dream about
this happening to you."
It's very interesting.
So, you've written about
children.
I have written about children.
This last book, "Growing Up in
Heaven,"
it's very interesting how this
came about.
I was in my office, doing my
work,
answering emails probably,
and these children, spirit
children,
came into the office and I'm
looking around
and I'm saying,
"Okay, what are they doing
here?"
And I heard, they said to me,
in different ways,
"We're here to write your next
book,"
and I'm like "What?"
My guides came through later on
and they said "Yes, the
children are going to help you.
"You're going to write a book
about children
"and for parents who have lost
children."
And I said, "Really?"
And the book is really that.
The book is about what happens
to a child
when they pass into spirit,
how does it help the people
left behind,
how to help them.
Why do they pass over so young?
What happens when they go to
the other side.
It's a wonderful book and it's
helped thousands
and thousands and thousands of
people
who have lost children.
And it was really guided by the
children's spirits?
By the child. The children's
spirits.
So you know, a soul--
it's just interesting to say
this--
a soul, we come back onto this
Earth world,
we go through as many lessons
as we can and
when it's our time to leave and
graduate,
we move on.
So, our soul comes back for
experience.
A soul might be very evolved
and they only need
eight years of Earth experience,
or twenty years.
Then it's time to move on.
And that's really what it's
about.
How could God do this?
Well, it's not about God,
it's about the souls living
out, if you will,
what it's destiny.
What about souls, like the
group of kids--
So, Connecticut?
The group of kids there.
I can't say.
I believe, in that situation,
there was an agreement
before they came back to the
Earth.
It's so hard to think
"How could somebody do this?"
I do think a group soul,
a soul group,
will get together and they'll
put themselves
within a situation where they
will all experience
one thing so that situation can
teach
hundreds of thousands of others
if not
millions of others.
So, hopefully from this
situation in Connecticut,
there will be gun control laws,
there will be changes in ways
of bringing through
guns, if you will,
something has to happen and it
will.
Also, when we have that level
of tragedy that happens,
we still have yet to see what
will come out of it.
Look at the Mothers Against
Drunk Driving.
Unfortunately, that mother that
created that
had to have that experience.
That child's soul had to go
through that experience
in order to graduate to this
level of awareness
that we have now.
That's exactly right.
You don't know when it happens
why it's happening.
You don't know.
And it's very very interesting
because
I deal with parents who have
lost children all the time
and they say, "What am I
learning from this, James?
"What am I learning?"
You know what?
Just wait, wait, because years
from now,
your experience will be very
very valuable to
someone else who is going
through the experience.
So, you never know if it's
going to be
writing a book, starting a
support group,
starting a radio show, changing
things around.
You know, we never go through
this world alone
and we always are guided in
what we are doing.
I also want to say a little
more about
children who have passed over.
I often say to parents well, as
souls, in a past life
maybe you left early and that
soul had to learn what
it was like to lose a child
then.
Now, you have to learn what
it's like,
so there's a balance if you
will.
There's a wholeness to the
experience.
When you're going through that
level of grief
and I can't imagine anything
worse,
but when you're going through
that level of grief
my prayer is that someone
watching right now
will hear what you're saying and
establish that communication
and create a healing.
I know that that's going to
happen.
And realize that they are not
alone.
Their loved one is still with
them,
the children are still with
very much guiding them, leading
them, helping them.
So, there is no death.
So, how can they?
You talked about other
techniques of how to
communicate.
Can you set up an agreement,
say with my husband,
and say, "Hey, why don't we
communicate through clouds
"if one of us leaves early?"
Yes, there are different signs
and different ways
the spirit will communicate and
the most common way
as I mentioned earlier was a
dream state.
They come through your dreams.
Another way, electricity.
Somehow, spirit can affect, if
you will,
the electromagnetic field
around things.
Radios, computers, televisions.
You'll get these weird signals
happen
or a song will turn on suddenly.
Or butterflies, dragonflies,
birds.
People will say, "My mother's a
butterfly.
"Every time I see a butterfly,
"I know it's my mother."
Is it her mother?
Yes and no.
I would say this.
I would say that the mother's
spirit is probably
right next to that person and
projecting their image
into the consciousness of that
person
so in turn that person
associates.
When they see that butterfly,
they'll think of their mother.
So in a way, yes it is.
There's stories and stories
that have come through.
My grandfather, when he died,
a bird flew straight through
the front door to the bathroom
and everyone in the house said,
"That's Grandpa."
I think there's an electric--
I believe that there's an
agreement with the animal
kingdom
in some way because they work
with us.
That happened also to me, with
my mother,
with a bird type of thing,
sitting down for like an hour
next to me.
So, it does happen that they
can influence
and we work with them, the
animal kingdom.
So, pay attention to what goes
around you.
I have done that with my family
members.
With my mom, we're going to
communicate through flowers
and I just have done that
because I've heard it enough
times.
Oh, definitely.
There are ways people are going
to hear thoughts
in their head of someone or
they'll look at someone looks
just like their mother passed
over.
Or they'll sense smells like
flowers or tobacco
or aftershave.
Something you can associate
with your loved one
who passed over.
They will come through any way
they possibly can.
Scent, that's an interesting
point.
Do you sense a floral, a very
strong floral scent
when spirits around?
It depends on the spirit.
It depends on how they want to
project and communicate.
There are some people who can
do that very very well.
As long as the person can
associate.
My mother used to love roses.
They'll project the smell of
roses, it's very very strong.
Or a perfume smell, you know?
Do you think those smells can
actually be
infused into oils and where
there is energetic infusions.
Do you believe in those?
I would not be surprised at all.
Why couldn't it?
Based on what you know?
Yes, why couldn't it?
It's hard because you'd really
really have to refine it
down to a certain level.
Frequency.
Yes, frequency, which is very
very slow, slow.
It's really really hard.
I'm sure with a lot of
concentration and work
they could do that.
It takes a lot of work.
It takes a lot of energy for
them to come down
into a three-dimensional world
or
to be known in the
third-dimensional world.
So, when spirit talks to you,
is the vibration so much faster
and higher?
Yes, it's very very much so and
I have to kind of attune myself
to that
higher frequency, if you will.
And, I'm pretty energetic so
I'll pick up on that.
The reason why I'm known as a
good medium
because I'm able to hear those
higher frequencies,
I'm able to tune myself to
those higher vibrations.
Me, as a physical human being,
I'm hyper anyway
so I think that helps.
You're already a little bit--
My makeup is so it helps, I
think.
A little hyper anyway so it
helps.
When I see you in action, you
do,
you get very very fast and
spirit comes in
and you tell them to slow down.
Slow down yes, because they are
too fast.
It moves very very quickly.
They'll be like sending me
thoughts and images.
It's very much like if I say,
"Hello, how are you today?"
The spirit way would say,
"Hello-you-today."
It's so quick and many times
they'll get through,
let's say a name.
It will say "Mary. Mary."
And I will hear "Mary."
So, I'll say "There's a lady
here named Mary."
The person in the audience will
say
her name is Marie, not Mary.
But you see how close it is.
That's what you hear.
So when I get, as a medium, I
have to go with
exactly what I'm hearing.
Do you see it like a strip of
pictures
that come through?
Flooding images?
All different.
I'll see them as pictures, as
blending of pictures.
I'll see a person standing
there and they'll look
physically I'm looking at you
right now?
It's exactly that.
Or I'll see just a head or I'll
see just a face
or I'll see a beautiful suit.
Something how they can project
into my consciousness
an image, a thought, that I'm
able to give to the person
that they understand it's them.
I'm known as a Survival
Evidence Medium,
which means that my job is
really to
bring through evidential
details,
names, places, events,
that only that person would know
and the spirit would know.
It proves survivor
consciousness.
Have you ever done any work with
the police or investigators?
Yes.
Or the government?
Yes, I used to do a lot of work
with
police agencies.
Years and years ago, I used to
work mostly
in kidnapping cases.
Quietly, off to the side, I've
worked
on some well-known cases too,
which I'm not going to talk
about.
But I have worked in some cases.
Interesting stuff.
I saw files of some of these
things.
But, when the kidnapping thing
happened,
and there's a movie, my movie
with Ted Danson,
an early part of that movie is
sort of about
kids that have been kidnapped
and taken away.
Part of that was really gleaned
from my work
with kidnappings.
But, I had to stop it because
it was so
brutal at one point and
I remember the very last one I
was working,
a case in New Orleans,
out there in the swamp area
outside New Orleans.
There was a little girl who was
three years old who died
and she came through to me and
I saw everything
from this man that had killed
her.
Oh, God, no no no.
Yeah, so I don't do that
anymore.
I can understand that.
You have to close it off at
some point.
Is there anything you are
specifically seeing right now
around us or around our
communication at all?
Here is this room you mean?
Yeah, yeah.
I have a feeling that things
are going to expand here
and I have a feeling
it's just going to be bigger
and bigger.
Think internationally.
China is going to be pretty
big, too.
I see you're going to travel
with this show.
You're going to be traveling
with it.
I think this is just a very
small part of
what this is going to go to.
Yeah, this is a big vision.
Gaiam Inspirations.
The whole network is.
It's really a great vision and
I think that
everyone at Gaiam, they have to
really--
Gaiam needs to respect
themselves
because they are doing this
work and
getting the word out and it's
very very important.
That's wonderful to hear.
Okay, we're going to take a
look at
another piece of James' work and
you can see James in action.
Take a look.
I grew up in Bayside, New York,
which is a suburb of New York
City and
I was the youngest of four
children.
I had a sister, Lynn,
a brother, Michael,
a sister, Moira and myself.
I found that my childhood was a
little bit lonely
in a way when I look back,
only because I could see things
that other kids could not.
I think that I was raised,
I think we are all brought into
this life, on this Earth,
and we pick our families and
friends.
I do believe we are soul groups.
I think we come back in soul
groups and
I picked a mother who was an
alcoholic.
So, she had an addiction and as
a child,
I hated her because I didn't
have a normal childhood
and I used to wish she was dead
and I used to think
these horrible things.
As you grow up and as you
evolve as we all do,
we look back at things and we
see the lesson.
Now that I look back, of course,
my early 20s I think it was,
actually when she first passed
over,
I realized that it was a
disease, number one
and then as I evolved
spiritually,
getting more aware of what this
stuff is
all about, that we are spirits
first and foremost
having a physical experience,
I realized that I picked that
situation in my life
as we all do and I picked that
situation because
I needed someone to teach me
about compassion.
So, I wouldn't have been able
to do that work
that I'm doing now without
learning about
what compassion is and what
better way to learn it
than from your mother?
So much pain but so much growth.
So much growth through the pain
and
afterwards I realized we've got
to see the bigger picture.
That was the funny thing.
She was an incredible, great,
funny woman.
Great sense of humor, very very
quick, very very witty
and I think I understood why
she was in that way
because I think she was also
very psychic,
very very sensitive.
She used to get impressions all
the time
but she didn't know what it was
and
she was raised Catholic.
Very Catholic, Irish Catholic.
I think it was her way to shut
them off,
shut off the information, the
intuition.
I also think emotionally she
wasn't getting
satisfied from the relationship
with my father and
I think in those days, in that
generation,
you stayed together, you didn't
divorce.
There wasn't anything about
I think that was part of it,
too,
so I think in a way she was
trapped.
I understand now that was her
way of escape.
So, I've really got to say to
people that judgement
is a very bad thing and
it's a bad thing because number
one,
people judge because they want
to feel powerful.
So, if I can judge you, I have
the power and
I can make you less than I am.
That's judgement.
You can't judge anybody because
you don't know
what their background is, their
back story.
So, yeah, "Talking to Heaven,"
that's my life story, in that
as a young child
I used to see spirits all the
time.
I used to know things about
people.
I used to see colors and lights
around people,
their auras.
That was my childhood.
For me, it was great and I just
loved it.
I was in my own little world and
people, I said you see these
kids over in the cemetery?
I was young and playing with
some friends.
We cut school like good
Catholic boys.
I said to my friends,
"You see those two little kids?"
There were like two year olds,
playing in the cemetery.
They said, "What are you
talking about?"
I said, "Look, there's a boy
and a girl right there
"next to that headstone."
We were cutting school and so
we'd go to cemeteries
for when we'd cut school.
My friends don't see them.
I said, "Come on let's look,
let's go over there."
So, we walked over to the
headstone and
the two kids went behind it and
that was the end of it.
I didn't see them anymore.
We read the headstone and it
was a boy and a girl.
Brother and sister who died at
the age of three years old.
But, to me, it was like, it was
normal.
My childhood has always been a
sense of
I see spirit, doesn't everybody
see spirit?
Don't you see the lights around
that person?
Don't you see their aura?
You don't see that?
Come on, you have to see that.
It was like that sort of thing
and
I think kids are very open
because you have to remember,
they just came from the spirit
world,
so their mindset is really from
that point of view, right?
Until we drown them around age
eight or nine.
Oh, no, you don't see that.
You've got to be smarter than
that.
That's just fantasy, that's
just imagination.
It happened in a series of ways
as I think that
the spirit world was
manipulating it all to happen.
I do believe that because I
think we are very influenced
by the other side, no doubt
about it.
In my childhood, there was a
lady named Connie Leaf,
who I actually dedicated my
first book to,
"Talking to Heaven."
I was eight years old and I was
selling Easter candy
to the neighbors for Catholic
school
They used to do that.
They still do.
And, I was actually walking
down the street
and a lady stops with a 1961
Chevy,
a red convertible and she said,
"Hey, I have a boy about your
age.
"We just moved into the
neighborhood.
"Would you like to come and
meet him?"
I said, "Yeah."
You have to remember, this was
a lady and my mother
was not available and this lady
was so expressive
and so out there and so bright.
I was like, whoa.
She really was my mentor.
It's always great to see you in
action and
you're used to being in a room
and where I see you really
shine is when
you are in a room like we saw
in that tape
of giving different people
communication.
Because there's no one in this
studio right now,
I want people to be able to see
that.
It's really great.
You've also had a lot of shows.
We talked about earlier that
you were the creator
of "The Ghost Whisperer,"
and there's a picture that we
have of you--
With Jennifer Love Hewitt, my
Jennifer.
Yes, she was great with that
part, that role.
She really, I got to meet
Jennifer Love Hewitt,
we were sitting in a room with
the other producers
and she said--
she didn't look at me the whole
time and
I was like, "Why isn't she
looking at me?"
She would not look at me.
Then she came up at the end and
she said,
"Excuse me, would you have
lunch with me or dinner?"
I said, "Yeah."
The next day we had lunch
together and
I talked to her and I said,
"Do you know who I am?"
And she said,
"Oh, yeah, I'm really a big fan.
"That's why I couldn't look at
you."
Okay.
(laughing)
And she really, she had a real
curiosity about
psychic phenomena, life after
death,
the spirit world,
So she really loved it.
Pisces girl
Very very into this.
We had a wonderful time helping
her to understand
my line of work, how the spirit
world works,
what happens to Earth-bound
spirits.
She really wanted to know all
about it and
she was a great great student.
Good girl.
Were there miracles that
happened on those sets
that couldn't be explained?
Yes. Yes, all the time.
Can you share some stories with
us?
Yes, yes.
I can explain, too.
We shot at Universal Studios.
Right around here.
Right around here, right down
the street.
A couple things happened which
were just very shocking.
For me, I'm aware that spirit's
always around
and they're doing things and
letting things be known
that they are around.
The first thing happened in the
editing bay
that the four editors that we
had on the show,
their machines would break down
after certain scenes
and the scenes were when the
spirits were released
out of the Earth vibration into
the spirit.
At the end of the show, she'd
release them
to the higher vibrations.
It would happen after the first
three or four shows
that their editing bank would
break,
the actual machine would break
down,
right when she released those
spirits.
It happened four times in the
first season.
Then we had some spirits who
were there in the room,
Earth-bound spirits who were
around that whole hallway
where the editing bay was and
we had to release them.
So, that was very interesting.
Another time we had an actor
take his mark
and it was Jay Mohr and he had
his mark,
we were rehearsing and he left
that mark
and a lamp came down and smashed
right where he was standing.
So, if he'd been there five
seconds before--
Oh, right.
So, we had several of those
types of instances.
A lot of different things.
So, you had to actually work
with many different elements.
I did and I worked a lot with
the writers on the show,
I worked with the producers.
I actually did a whole
demonstration for ABC and CBS
at a producer's house where I
did a demonstration
to show them that this is very
very real.
Communication with spirit is a
real thing
and they were shocked.
They were very shocked.
I remember one of the producers,
it came through that she only
had one kidney
I think it was.
No, one ovary, one ovary.
And her husband didn't even
know it.
He was sitting right there he
goes,
"I didn't know that."
And she says, "Yes, I have only
one ovary."
It was very good details.
So, it opens them up to the
realization
that this is real, this isn't
fantasy.
This stuff is real.
Yes and the more that we know
that,
the more that we recognize that,
when we're thinking or in
traffic or
having actions with other
people,
and we realize that we're just
spirit--
Yes, spirit having a physical
experience.
And these experiences, like
sitting in a car,
it's a wonderful opportunity
for you
to remember who you are.
When you want to yell at the
person in front of you,
stop and breathe, go back to
your center.
This is an opportunity to show
love.
So, with your thoughts, send
love to that person.
I say "pink-light" them.
Put a pink light around them.
Love them.
That's a good way.
We also have a photo of you
with Cesar Milan,
who I think is an amazing
animal communicator.
Yes.
Cesar Milan was on the show.
He did an episode of "Ghost
Whisperer."
He's as tall as I am, which I
love because
not many people are also five
foot five.
Nice man and he has definitely
a link
with the animal kingdom, no
doubt about it.
He does.
Oh, no doubt about it.
He's a great animal
communicator.
So, his gifts are beyond just
experience.
I think so, I definitely think
so.
Lisa, let me just jump in here
and say
when animals communicate,
because people often ask me
that,
they come through all the time
and they are
incredible communicators
because when they come through
they come through with such
purity and
such unconditional love.
There's no human stuff in there.
There's no judgements.
There's none of that.
So, what would a message sound
like from an animal?
For instance, I was doing a
demonstration,
a workshop, I think it was in
Denver,
and the lady is standing there
asking a question.
Right away I see this horse
come next to her.
It was a brown and white horse
and then I said,
"There's a man to your left and
he's wearing overalls,"
and I said his name is William.
She said, "That's my horse,
that's my Uncle William.
"He bought me a horse when I
was fourteen and
"that's the horse he bought me."
The horse gave me thoughts,
like telepathic thoughts about
the ribbons,
the bridle, about how she used
to take care of the horse
and brush the horse, where the
brush was located still.
Just these little things.
The amount of love that the
horse wanted to convey,
thanking her, the gratitude.
Animals come through, doggies
all the time,
cats all the time, they come
through with so much love
and they thank their loved one.
I've had many people say,
"I had to put my baby to sleep,
my doggy to sleep."
It's a wonderful experience of
an example of
unconditional love, because it
came from loving that
animal so much and that's
again, another lesson.
We always have lessons.
Every day we have lessons to
learn.
Oh, my goodness, it's true.
And if you look at things that
way,
I mean, the pain, the physical
experience
of putting an animal down versus
the spiritual experience of
looking at the entire soul
group that you had together,
it really, it takes the edge
off a little bit.
It's also, Lisa, I say with
everything in life,
it's always the motivation
behind the act
so whenever there's a situation,
what is the motivation for you
behind that situation?
Is it coming from a pure place
of unconditional love
trying to do the best you can
do?
Is that where it's coming from?
Then you're good, that's where
it should be.
But if it's a place of
"I need to get ahead, I need to
get over on that person,
"I need to be--"
That's not the right space.
It's about inclusion.
It's about being inclusive and
out of that place
of competition and fear.
And treating another person.
It's the Golden Rule.
I tell you that I love this,
it's so true.
Give another person.
Treat them the way you want to
be treated.
Say things to them.
I'm known, in New York probably,
around the country but,
I always change the energy in a
space.
I know you do the same thing.
When I go into a space, like a
Starbucks,
and they're all standing there
like this,
pulling up the cups and I'm like
"Hi, how are you? What are you
doing?"
I make it fun for them.
I engage them and I think it's
very very important
that we remember as spiritual
beings,
we need to engage each other.
We're sharing the space.
Let's have fun with each other.
I do that with laughter and
some people
have said, "She giggles too
much,"
but I intentionally bring
laughter in to shift space.
It brings neutrality into a
room.
You're exactly right, it does.
Everybody wants to laugh and
laughter's healing.
It's wonderful healing.
We all need that.
We do, we do.
And especially as energy gets
intense and thick
and if you can bring in--
it looks goofy at first but
it's playful.
And it brings that sense of
lightness in.
You know, when I'm on stage,
people look at me and at the
end of my demonstration
they will come up to me and
I'll be signing books and
they'll say, "I never realized
you were so funny,
"You're so funny."
Well, it's just who I am.
You have to have a sense of
humor.
Exactly.
Well, you've been a wonderful
joy to speak with
and to learn from and I know
that your words
will resonate with people and
into their hearts,
because you know truth when it
hits you and
I see you--
just sitting here watching you
in person which is great.
Thank you.
Because I get to see the color
change in your face
when truth comes in and--
Excitement.
It's true.
I've interviewed you on the
radio for so long
that I get to finally see you
in person now.
Yay.
Thank you so much.
Thank you, Lisa, I really
appreciate it.
For sharing your energy with us.
Thank you, thank you and
everyone who is watching.
Thank them as well.
Yes, yes.
Then, also, James does
spiritual cruises as well.
I do spiritual cruises around
the world
with other mediums.
It's on my website,
vanpraagh.com.
That would be fun, too.
Definitely check that out, too
and
if you would like to watch a
replay
of my interview with James Van
Praagh,
or share it with your friends,
go to gaiamtv.com.
There's a lot more
thought-provoking interviews
and inspirational films as well,
so please sign up for a free
trial today
by going to gaiamtv. com.
Until next time, I invite you
to stay inspired.
[MUSIC]